New extended tutorial for test jobs (infra) (#1405)
canonical/checkbox: docs/tutorial/writing-tests/test-case.rst

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::network_test
    ===========================[ Running Selected Jobs ]============================
    =========[ Running job 1 / 1. Estimated time left (at least): 0:00:00 ]=========
    --------------------------[ A job that always passes ]--------------------------
    ID: com.canonical.certification::network_test
    Category: com.canonical.plainbox::uncategorised
    ... 8< -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    This job passes!
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------- >8 ---
    Outcome: job passed
    Finalizing session that hasn't been submitted anywhere: checkbox-run-2024-08-01T13.05.51
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
     ☑ : A job that always passes

First concrete test example
===========================

Ok, it worked, but this is not very useful. Lets go back and edit the job to
actually run a ping command. Replace the command section of the job with
``ping -c 1 1.1.1.1``, lets also update the summary as follows:

.. code-block:: none

    id: network_available

>     flags: simple

Author: Added an explanation and a lik to the glossary in a note below the first usage of a flag

     ☐ : Test that the network speed is acceptable

Customize tests via envvars
===========================

Sometimes it is hard to set an unique value for a test parameter because it may
depend on a multitude of factors. Notice that our previous test has a very
ISP-generous interpretation of what is an acceptable speed, some customers may
beg to differ. At the same time it is hard to define an acceptable speed for
any interface and all machines. In Checkbox we use environment variables
to customize testing parameters that have to be defined per-machine/test run.
Consider the following:

.. code-block:: none

    id: network_speed
    flags: simple
    _summary: Test that the network speed is acceptable
    environ:
      ACCEPTABLE_BYTES_PER_SECOND_SPEED
    command:
      echo Testing for the limit speed: ${ACCEPTABLE_BYTES_PER_SECOND_SPEED:-600}
      curl -Y ${ACCEPTABLE_BYTES_PER_SECOND_SPEED:-600} -o /dev/null \
        https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mini-iso/noble/daily-live/current/noble-mini-iso-amd64.iso

Before running the test we have to define a Checkbox configuration. Note that
if we were using a test plan, we could run it with a launcher, but the

> ``run`` command doesn't take a launcher parameter, so we have to use a

Author: Agree, run is so underpower it makes me sad sometimes

configuration file. Place the following in ``~/.config/checkbox.conf``.

.. code-block:: ini

    [environment]

>     ACCEPTABLE_BYTES_PER_SECOND_SPEED=60000000

Reviewer: I see `60000000` here, `600` as the default in the job, and I'm a bit confused, especially as `-Y` is defined as

```
       -Y, --speed-limit <speed>
              If a transfer is slower than this given speed (in bytes per sec‐
              ond) for speed-time seconds it gets aborted. speed-time  is  set
              with -y, --speed-time and is 30 if not set.
```

Author: (ops, -y is 30 by default, I thought it was 1)

    Outcome: job passed
    Finalizing session that hasn't been submitted anywhere: checkbox-run-2024-08-06T14.17.23
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
     ☑ : Test that the network speed is acceptable

.. warning::

    Don't assume that a Checkbox job will inherit any environment variable from
    the parent shell, global env or any other source. There are a few exceptions
    but in general:

    - Any variable that is not in the ``environ`` section of a job is not set
    - Any variable not declared in the ``environment`` section of a launcher or configuration file is not set

If you decide to parametrize your tests using environment variables, always
check if they are set or give them a default value via ``${...:-default}``.
If you expect a variable to be set and it is not, always fail the test stating
what variable you needed and what it was for. If you decide to use a default
value, always output the value the test is going to use in the test log so that
when you have to investigate why something went wrong, it is trivial to
reproduce the tests with the parameters that may have made it fail.

Resources
=========

> Before even thinking to test if we are connected to the internet a wise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before even thinking to test if we are connected to the Internet a wise
```

> question to ask would be: do we even have a network interface? Lets create a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
question to ask would be: do we even have a network interface? Let's create a
```

> resource job to fetch this information.

Reviewer: What is a "resource job"? Either link to doc, or explain in one sentence (good luck).

Author: Link to the doc and explanation is in order, I think this tutorial should assume you went through the basic tutorial and you are a yellow belt checkbox user, ready to start writing

.. code-block:: none

    id: network_iface_info
    _summary: Fetches information of all network intefaces
    plugin: resource
    command:
      ip -details -json link show | jq -r '
          .[] | "interface: " + .ifname +
          "\nlink_info_kind: " + .linkinfo.info_kind +
          "\nlink_type: " + .link_type + "\n"'

This test adds a new dependency to our provider. We need to declare this in
the correct spot else this will not work in a reproducible manner. Lets create
a packaging meta-data unit.

.. code-block:: none

    id: extended_tutorial_dependencies
    unit: packaging meta-data
    os-id: debian
    Depends:
      jq

If you now run the following command you will notice a validation error.

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > python3 manage.py validate
    [...]
    error: ../base/units/submission/packaging.pxu:3: field 'Depends', clashes with 1 other unit, look at: ../base/units/submission/packaging.pxu:1-3, units/extended_tutorial.pxu:1-4
    Validation of provider tutorial has failed

Opening the file that the validator complains about, you will notice that the
jq dependency is already required by a base provider test. We can rely on the

> base provider, so we can safely remove this dependency from our provider.

Reviewer: This gets difficult pretty quickly, mixing packaging meta data units with resource jobs. Maybe this can be skipped for now, given that the base provider includes it (and, actually, it's not required to run in a venv)?

Author: I tried to give a progression that goes through the path of a new job developer in a rational progression. I think that here one would ask themselves: well I've used this tool, but how does checkbox know?

.. warning::
   If you don't have ``jq`` installed on your machine, install it now else you
   won't be able to follow the next steps. You can install it either via

>    ``sudo snap install jq`` or ``sudo apt install jq``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``sudo snap install jq`` or ``sudo apt install jq``.
```

> Now that we have this new resource lets run it to see what the output is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have this new resource let's run it to see what the output is
```

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) >  checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::network_iface_info
    ===========================[ Running Selected Jobs ]============================
    =========[ Running job 1 / 1. Estimated time left (at least): 0:00:00 ]=========
    ----------------[ Fetches information of all network intefaces ]----------------
    ID: com.canonical.certification::network_iface_info
    Category: com.canonical.plainbox::uncategorised
    ... 8< -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    interface: lo
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: loopback

    interface: enp2s0f0
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: ether

    interface: enp5s0
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: ether

    interface: wlan0
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: ether

    interface: lxdbr0
    link_info_kind: bridge
    link_type: ether

    interface: veth993f2cd0
    link_info_kind: veth
    link_type: ether

    interface: tun0
    link_info_kind: tun
    link_type: none

We now add a ``requires:`` constraint to our jobs so that, if no interface

> that could possibly connected to the internet is on the machine, we can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that could possibly connect to the Internet is on the machine, we can
```

skip them instead of failing.

.. code-block:: none
    :emphasize-lines: 4,5

    id: network_available
    flags: simple

>     _summary: Test that the internet is reachable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    _summary: Test that the Internet is reachable
```

    requires:
      network_iface_info.link_type == "ether"
    command:
      ping -c 1 1.1.1.1

> If we now run the ``network_available`` test, Checkbox will automatically pull
> also ``network_iface_info``. Note that this only happens because both are in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we now run the ``network_available`` test, Checkbox will also automatically
pull ``network_iface_info``. Note that this only happens because both are in
```

the same namespace.

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::network_available
    ===========================[ Running Selected Jobs ]============================
    =========[ Running job 1 / 2. Estimated time left (at least): 0:00:00 ]=========
    ----------------[ Fetches information of all network intefaces ]----------------
    [...]
    =========[ Running job 2 / 2. Estimated time left (at least): 0:00:00 ]=========

>     --------------------[ Test that the internet is reachable ]---------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --------------------[ Test that the Internet is reachable ]---------------------
```

    [...]
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
     ☑ : Fetches information of all network intefaces
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable

Are we done then? Almost, there are a few issues with our resource job. The
first and most relevant is that the ``resource`` constraint we have written
seems to work, but if we analyze the output what we have written actually
over-matches (as ``veth993f2cd0`` is also an ``ether`` device, but it is not a

> valid interface to use to connect to the internet). We can easily fix this by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
valid interface to use to connect to the Internet). We can easily fix this by
```

updating the expression as follows but take note of what happened.

.. warning::

>     It is actually difficult to write a significant resource expressions. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    It is actually difficult to write a significant resource expression. This
```

    time we got "lucky", and we could notice the mistake on our own machine, but
    this may not be the always the case. In general make your resource
    expressions as restrictive as possible.

.. code-block:: none

    id: network_available
    [...]
    requires:

>       (network_iface_info.link_info_kind == "" and network_iface_info.link_type == "ether")

Reviewer: You prefer to show them the best way to write resource expressions, instead of the following (albeit easier to read for a human)?

```suggestion
      network_iface_info.link_info_kind == ""
      network_iface_info.link_type == "ether"
```

Author: This is completely wrong though, this means there is at least a network_iface_info that has no link speed and one that is of type ether. the one in the tutorial means there is a network_iface_info that is of kind empty AND link type ether

The second issue is harder to fix. Checkbox is currently built for a multitude
of Ubuntu versions, including 16.04. If we inspect the 16.04
`manual <https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/man8/ip.8.html>`_ of the
``ip`` command we notice one thing: the version shipped with Xenial doesn't support
the ``--json`` flag.

.. warning::
    When you use a pre-installed package, always check if all versions support

>     your use case and if there is a version available for all target versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    your use case and if there is a version available for all target versions.
```

If we want to contribute this new test upstream, the pull request will be
declined for this reason. We could work around this in a multitude of way but
what we should have done to begin with is ask ourselves: Is there a resource
job that already does what we need? We can ask Checkbox via the ``list``
command.

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli list all-jobs -f "{id} -> {_summary} : {plugin}\n" | grep resource | grep device
    [...]
    device -> Collect information about hardware devices (udev) : resource
    [...]

We can now update our job, but with what ``requires``? Lets run the ``device``
job and check the output.

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::device | grep -C 15 wlan
    [...]
    category: WIRELESS
    interface: wlan0
    [...]

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::device | grep -C 15 enp
    [...]
    category: NETWORK
    interface: enp5s0
    [...]

> Lets propagate this newfound knowledge over to our ``requires`` constraint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's propagate this newfound knowledge over to our ``requires`` constraint:
```

.. code-block:: shell

    # first install python3 and python3-venv
    > sudo apt install python3 python3-venv python3-pip
    # clone the Checkbox repository
    > git clone https://github.com/canonical/checkbox.git
    # call the mk-venv script with the location of your virtualenv
    # Note: this mk-venv script sets up more than a normal virtual env. It also
    #       adds some Checkbox specific environment variables
    > cd checkbox/checkbox-ng
    > ./mk-venv ../../checkbox_venv
    # Activate the virtual environment
    > . ../../checkbox_venv/bin/activate
    # Install checkbox_support, it is a collection of utility scripts used by
    # many tests
    (checkbox_venv) > cd ../checkbox-support
    (checkbox_venv) > pip install -e .
    # Install the resource provider, we will use it further along in this tutorial
    (checkbox_venv) > cd ../providers/resource
    (checkbox_venv) > python3 manage.py develop

.. note::
    Remember to activate the virtual environment! You can also create an alias
    in your ``~/.bashrc`` to enable it when you need it.

Creating a new provider
=======================

> 

Reviewer 2: For cross-reference: In the explanation of Provider `explanation/understanding.rst`, we said "See tutorials on how to create a provider from scratch". It needs to be updated to link to this new tutorial :)

Let's create a new Checkbox provider by using the Checkbox sub-command

> ``startprovider``.

Author: Disregarding this as it can (should) be done in any directory. Most likely not in the `checkbox/providers` one, we don't really accept new providers in the repo that way.

if we were using a test plan, we could run it with a launcher, but the
``run`` command doesn't take a launcher parameter, so we have to use a
configuration file. Place the following in ``~/.config/checkbox.conf``.

.. code-block:: ini

    [environment]
    ACCEPTABLE_BYTES_PER_SECOND_SPEED=60000000

Running the test with the usual command, you will notice that now the limit is
higher:

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::network_speed
    [...]
    Testing for the limit speed: 60000000
      % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                     Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
    100  5105    0  5105    0     0   6645      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  6647
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------- >8 ---
    Outcome: job passed
    Finalizing session that hasn't been submitted anywhere: checkbox-run-2024-08-06T14.17.23
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
     ☑ : Test that the network speed is acceptable

.. warning::

>     Don't assume that a Checkbox job will inherit any environment variable from

Author: (partially false, but it is better to scare than to explain the edge cases in this situation!)

    Category: com.canonical.plainbox::uncategorised
    ... 8< -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    interface: lo
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: loopback

    interface: enp2s0f0
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: ether

    interface: enp5s0
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: ether

    interface: wlan0
    link_info_kind:
    link_type: ether

    interface: lxdbr0
    link_info_kind: bridge
    link_type: ether

    interface: veth993f2cd0
    link_info_kind: veth
    link_type: ether

    interface: tun0
    link_info_kind: tun
    link_type: none

We now add a ``requires:`` constraint to our jobs so that, if no interface
that could possibly connect to the Internet is on the machine, we can
skip them instead of failing.

.. code-block:: none
    :emphasize-lines: 4,5

    id: network_available
    flags: simple
    _summary: Test that the Internet is reachable
    requires:
      network_iface_info.link_type == "ether"
    command:
      ping -c 1 1.1.1.1

If we now run the ``network_available`` test, Checkbox will also automatically
pull ``network_iface_info``. Note that this only happens because both are in

> the same namespace.

Author: probably not

    use echo to print and debug it. This is the most immediate tool you have at
    your disposal. For a more principled solution see the Test Plan Extended
    Tutorial.

We can technically still user run to execute this job but note that the job
id is, and must, be calculated at runtime, as ids must be unique. Try to run
the following:

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::network_available_interface
    ===========================[ Running Selected Jobs ]============================
    Finalizing session that hasn't been submitted anywhere: checkbox-run-2024-08-06T10.02.00
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
    (checkbox_venv) >

As you can see, nothing was ran. There are two reasons:

- Templates don't automatically pull the ``template-resource`` dependency when
  executed via run
- Templates can't be executed via run using their ``template-id``

We can easily solve the situation in this example by manually pulling the
dependency and using the explicit id of the job that will be generated or a
regex:

.. code-block:: none

>     (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::network_iface_info "com.canonical.certification::network_available_wlan0"

Author: it is not, but I've noticed the namespace is wrong, I will fix that

    [...]
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
     ☑ : Fetches information of all network intefaces
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via wlan0

    # or alternatively with the regex (note the " " around the id, they are important!)
    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::network_iface_info "com.canonical.certification::network_available_.*"
    [...]
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
     ☑ : Fetches information of all network intefaces
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via lo
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via enp2s0f0
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via enp5s0
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via wlan0
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via lxdbr0
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via vetha6dd5923

This is a quick and dirty solution that can be handy if you want to run a test
and you can manually resolve the dependency chain that is not resolved by
Checkbox but this can be, in practice, often hard or impossible.

> For a more principled solution see the the Test Plan Tutorial section.

Author: we have to create it! it is not created yet

     ☑ : Fetches information of all network intefaces
     ☐ : Test that the internet is reachable via enp2s0f0
     ☐ : Test that the internet is reachable via enp5s0
     ☑ : Test that the internet is reachable via wlan0

Let me conclude this section by highlighting this last point. See the
difference between ``template-filter`` and ``requires``.

- The resources filtered by the ``template-filter`` do not generate a test, we
  do this when the generated test would not make sense (for example, connection
  test for the loopback interface)
- The resources that, when filtered by the ``resource`` expression is empty,
  marks the job as skipped. We do this when the job makes sense (for example,
  the interface exists) but the current situation makes it impossible for it
  to pass for an external reason (for example, the ethernet port may work but
  it is not currently plugged in)

Dealing with complexity - Python
================================

The ``network_available`` test that we have created during this tutorial is
very simple but, in the real world things are not as simple. For example,
right now we are only pinging once from the test, if the ping goes through

> we call that a success, else a failure. This works in our simple scenario while

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the test is considered successful; otherwise, it's a failure. This works in our simple scenario while
```
a bit like a mixture of Python and English :)

    multiple pipes and destructive redirection within a command section. You
    will thank us later.

Create two new directories in the provider: ``bin/`` and ``tests/``. Create
a new python file in ``bin/`` and call it ``network_available.py`` and make it
executable (``chmod +x network_available.py``).

Let's translate the previous test into Python first:

.. code-block:: python

    #!/usr/bin/env python3
    import sys
    import argparse
    import subprocess

    def parse_args(argv):
        parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
        parser.add_argument(
            "interface", help="Interface to connectivity test"
        )
        return parser.parse_args(argv)

    def network_available(interface):
        print("Testing", interface)
        return subprocess.check_call(
            ["ping", "-I", interface, "-c", "1", "1.1.1.1"]
        )

    def main(argv=None):
        if argv is None:
            argv = sys.argv[1:]
        args = parse_args(argv)
        ping_test(args.interface)

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        main()

.. note::
    A few important things to notice about the script:

>     #. We use Black to format all tests and source files in Checkbox with a custom config: ``line-length = 79``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - We use Black to format all tests and source files in Checkbox with a custom config: ``line-length = 79``.
```
Ordering is not important in the list, so bullets would be better (which is used in a note below)

                --- 1.1.1.1 ping statistics ---
                2 packets transmitted, 2 received, 0% packet loss, time 170ms
                rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 34.980/60.486/142.567/31.077 ms
                """
            ).strip()
            network_available.network_available("wlan0", "90")
            self.assertTrue(check_output_mock.called)

        @mock.patch("subprocess.check_output")
        def test_failure(self, check_output_mock):
            check_output_mock.return_value = textwrap.dedent(
                """
                PING 1.1.1.1 (1.1.1.1) from 192.168.1.100 wlan0: 56(84) bytes
                64 bytes from 1.1.1.1: icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=39.0 ms

                --- 1.1.1.1 ping statistics ---
                10 packets transmitted, a received, 90% packet loss, time 170ms
                rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 34.980/60.486/142.567/31.077 ms
                """
            ).strip()
            with self.assertRaises(SystemExit):
                network_available.network_available("wlan0", "0")

.. note::
   We use ``self.assertTrue(check_output_mock.called)`` instead of
   ``check_output_mock.assert_called_once()``. The reason is that we have to be

>    compatible (in tests as well!) with python3.5 and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   compatible (in tests as well!) with Python 3.5 and
```

>    ``Mock.assert_called_once`` was introduced in Python3.6. If you don't know

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``Mock.assert_called_once`` was introduced in Python 3.6. If you don't know
```

>    when a function was introduced, refer to `the python documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   when a function was introduced, refer to `the Python documentation
```

>    <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.mock.html#unittest.mock.Mock.assert_called_once>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <https://docs.python.org/3/>`_.
```

Author: I was linking the topic I was talking about!

>    See below the example, if a function was introduced with a specific
>    version, you will find it there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For example, if you check the documentation for `Mock.assert_called_once<https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.mock.html#unittest.mock.Mock.assert_called_once>`_ you will see *Added in version 3.6.*
```

To run the tests go to the root of the provider and run the following:

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > python3 manage.py test -u
    test_failure (test_network_available.TestNetworkAvailable.test_failure) ...
    [...]
    test_nominal (test_network_available.TestNetworkAvailable.test_nominal) ...
    [...]

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 2 tests in 0.002s

    OK

.. note::
   You can also run ``python3 manage.py test`` without the ``-u``. Every
   provider comes with a set of builtin tests like ``shellcheck``
   (for the ``commands:`` sections) and flake8 (for all ``bin/*.py`` files).
   Not providing ``-u`` will simply run all tests.

Gathering Coverage from Unit Tests
----------------------------------

In Checkbox we have a coverage requirement for new pull requests.
This is to ensure that new contributions do not add source paths that are not
explored in testing and therefore easy to break down the line with any change.

If you want to collect the coverage of your contribution you can run the
following:

.. code-block:: none

>     (checkbox_venv) > python3 -m coverage run manage.py test -u

Reviewer 2: Looks like `coverage` has to be installed separately. so perhaps  `pip install coverage` is needed before this step

    (checkbox_venv) > python3 -m coverage report --include=bin/*
    Name                       Stmts   Miss  Cover
    ----------------------------------------------
    bin/network_available.py      25     10    60%
    ----------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                         25     10    60%
    (checkbox_venv) > python3 -m coverage report --include=bin/* -m
    Name                       Stmts   Miss  Cover   Missing
    --------------------------------------------------------
    bin/network_available.py      25     10    60%   8-18, 29, 49-52, 56
    --------------------------------------------------------
    TOTAL                         25     10    60%

>     # You can also get an html report with the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # You can also get an HTML report with the following
```

    # it is very convenient as you can see file per file what lines are covered
    # in
    (checkbox_venv) > python3 -m coverage html

> As you can see we are way below the coverage target but this is difficult to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see we are way below the coverage target (90%) but this is difficult to
```

fix, we should add an end to end test of the main function, so that we
cover it but, most importantly, we leave trace in the test file of an expected
usage of the script. Add the following to ``tests/test_network_available.py``

.. code:: python

    class TestMain(unittest.TestCase):

        @mock.patch("subprocess.check_output")
        def test_nominal(self, check_output_mock):
            check_output_mock.return_value = textwrap.dedent(
                """
                PING 1.1.1.1 (1.1.1.1) from 192.168.1.100 wlan0: 56(84) bytes
                64 bytes from 1.1.1.1: icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=39.0 ms
                64 bytes from 1.1.1.1: icmp_seq=2 ttl=53 time=143 ms

                --- 1.1.1.1 ping statistics ---
                2 packets transmitted, 2 received, 0% packet loss, time 170ms
                rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 34.980/60.486/142.567/31.077 ms
                """
            ).strip()
            network_available.main(["--threshold", "20", "wlan0"])
            self.assertTrue(check_output_mock.called)

> 

Reviewer: You can add a conclusion sentence for this section like

> We are now reaching *X%* of test coverage, this is good enough for what we want to achieve.
> 
> Having unit tests for Python scripts used in the Checkbox jobs will help you and others maintain the scripts and prevent regressions in the future.

(or something along the way)

Author: I think the paragraph introduction above is pretty clear

          sleep(1);
        }
        if(shared != MAGIC_NUMBER){
          printf("Child failed to set the variable\n");
        }else{
          printf("Child set the variable, vfork shares the memory\n");
        }
        return shared != MAGIC_NUMBER;
      }
      // we are in children, we should now write to shared, parent will
      // discover this if vfork implementation uses mamory sharing as expected
      shared = MAGIC_NUMBER;
      _exit(0);
    }

To compile our source files, Checkbox relies on a Makefile that must be in the
``src/`` directory. Let's create it with all the basic rules we are going to
need:

.. code-block:: Makefile

    .PHONY:
    all: vfork_memory_share_test

    .PHONY: clean
    clean:
      rm -f vfork_memory_share_test

    vfork_memory_share_test: CFLAGS += -pedantic

    CFLAGS += -Wall

Now we can go back to the root of the provider and use ``manage.py`` to compile
our test file:

.. code:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > ./manage.py build
    cc -Wall -pedantic ../../src/vfork_memory_share_test.c -o vfork_memory_share_test
    # The following step is not necessary when you install a provider

>     # but

Reviewer: is there something missing here, or can the comment be removed?

>     # but

Reviewer 2: is it intentional?

    id: vfork_memory_share
    _summary: Check that vfork syscall shares the memory between parent and child
    flags: simple
    command:
      vfork_memory_share_test

Running it you should see the following:

.. code-block:: none

    (checkbox_venv) > checkbox-cli run com.canonical.certification::vfork_memory_share
    ===========================[ Running Selected Jobs ]============================
    =========[ Running job 1 / 1. Estimated time left (at least): 0:00:00 ]=========
    ----[ Check that vfork syscall shares the memory between parent and child ]-----
    ID: com.canonical.certification::vfork_memory_share
    Category: com.canonical.plainbox::uncategorised
    ... 8< -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Child set the variable, vfork shares the memory
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------- >8 ---
    Outcome: job passed
    Finalizing session that hasn't been submitted anywhere: checkbox-run-2024-08-08T13.35.24
    ==================================[ Results ]===================================
     ☑ : Check that vfork syscall shares the memory between parent and child

.. warning::

>    Checkbox is delivered for many platforms so be mindful of what you include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Checkbox is delivered for many platforms (x86, ARM, etc.) so be mindful of what you include
```

   in the ``src/`` directory, especially if you plan to contribute the test

>    upstream. It must be compatible with all architectures we build for, debian

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   upstream. It must be compatible with all architectures we build for, Debian
```
